# cURL, Create 

## Lesson Objectives

1. Review RESTful routes
1. Describe what cURL is
1. Describe when we might use cURL
1. Use cURL to test a GET request
1. Use cURL to test a POST request
1. Pass parameters to the server using cURL


### Restful Routes

So far we've been able to see a list of all of our fruits (get index) and we've been able to see one fruit (get show).

Next, we want to be able to create a new fruit. Let's review our 7 restful routes:

| # | Action | URL | HTTP Verb | EJS view filename |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| 1 | Index | /fruits/ | GET | index.ejs |
| 2 | Show | /fruits/:index | GET | show.ejs |
| 3 | New | | | |
| 4 | **Create** | **/fruits/** | **POST** | **none** |
| 5 | Edit | | | |
| 6 | Update | | | |
| 7 | Destroy | | | |

Our create route will require the HTTP action POST. We can't make POST requests through our browser's URL.

Rather, we'll start out by using cURL. cURL will let us test our route. Once we have it working, we can build out some EJS. Always try to build as little as possible and test it.

## Describe what is cURL


- Is a command line tool that acts like a browser's requests
- cURL stands for `client for URL` [Docs](https://curl.haxx.se/docs/)
- You can use it to make requests to a website [Handy resource of flags and commands with an express server](https://gist.github.com/subfuzion/08c5d85437d5d4f00e58)
- All it does is send a request and then take the response and write it to the terminal
  - no formatting

## Describe when we might use cURL

- You want to create a route and test that it works
  - with a GET request, you can just type the route into the URL bar in the browser and see if it works. No muss no fuss  
  - Separate the functionality of EJS from your routes so you build more iteratively and you can isolate bugs better
- In order to test routes like POST:
  - you can't just make the request in the browser by entering the path in the URL bar like you would with a GET request
    - the only way to test a POST request in the browser is via forms
    - if you have to create a form first there is a lot more code to write, before you can test it:
      1. create a /new route
      1. create a `new.ejs` file with forms
      1. have the forms point to the correct POST route
      1. go to the /new route in the browser
      1. fill out the form
      1. click submit
- With cURL, we can make a POST request directly to the server without needing to go through all the set up

## Use cURL to test a GET request

Within the terminal execute the following:

```
curl https://generalassemb.ly
```

Neat!

## Use cURL to test a POST request

Set up the following route handler in our fruits app:

```javascript
app.post('/fruits', (req, res)=>{
  console.log('Create route accessed!')
  res.send('This route works')
})
```

To make a POST request, we'll need to add some arguments to the terminal command

Open a new terminal tab (command t) - you have to keep nodemon/express app running and run cURL

```
curl -X POST localhost:3000/fruits
```

The `-X POST` argument tells curl to make a POST request to the server

## Pass parameters to the server using cURL

Using the above command, the body of the request will be empty

```javascript
app.post('/fruits', (req, res)=>{
    console.log('Create route accessed!')
    console.log('Req.body is: ', req.body)
    res.send(req.body)
})
```

We can send in data but we won't be able to access it yet - we'll need to use some middleware to parse it(see next markdowN)
If we want to send in data we need to do so like this:

```javascript

curl -X POST -d name="dragon fruit" localhost:3000/fruits

```

or

```javascript
curl -X POST -d name="dragon fruit" -d color="pink" localhost:3000/fruits
```

For each new key/value pair, add a new `-d property="value"` argument

```
curl -X POST -d name="kiwi" -d color="green" -d readyToEat="on" localhost:3000/fruits
```
